# Template p5 project

Jessika Forster

Project 2 – Artist’s Statement

The game that I have created for my CART 253 project 2 is titled “The Missing Present”. The overall theme revolves around Christmas and it consists of a total of 7 levels of gameplay. The story is that Santa did not deliver one specific gift during his trip therefore, the new elf (the user) is put in charge of the mission of delivering the gift to the house where the recipient lives. My vision for this project was to create a game that would put the user in the Christmas spirit, but also add elements to make them become fully immersed in the gameplay experience by adding specific details that they must pay close attention to in order to complete the final mission. In addition, I wanted to put a lot of effort into the assets because I felt that visuals would allow the user to draw their full attention to the gameplay rather than have to imagine the story I wish to tell themselves while only looking at circles and squares. In order to create the assets showcased in my game, I used Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, After Effects and Final Cut Pro. As stated previously, my hope was that the assets that I created would allow the user to fully immerse themselves into the gameplay, but I added other elements in order to force the user to focus even more while playing. Instead of simply having the user make their way through the levels, I have hidden letters at different positions within the frame from levels 1 to 5. The user must complete the levels while also keeping their eyes wide open to spot the letters because they will allow them to complete the final mission. I made sure to state that they must keep an eye out for these letters and I also included plenty of instructions within my game. Throughout the levels, I made sure to clarify the instructions at every point where it was necessary. In some levels, such as level 3 and 5, the instructions are displayed as the level is taking place which heightens the urgency of the user and hopefully makes them become even more immersed into the world that I have created. I also added points where the user could take a moment to breathe, such as in level 2. A function that I find fun is when an element disappears as the user reaches it which is why I created this level without any chance to fail. Initially, I was going to add a failure state, but I found it satisfying to catch all the falling gifts until there was nothing left. As I took a lot of time to plan and figure out exactly what I wanted my game to look like, I feel that I was definitely able to bring my ideas to life through this project. The first step I took was sketching all of my assets out as well as my overall storyboard and then creating it all digitally on my computer. Once I had made all of the assets I needed, I was able to focus solely on the coding process and the user experience. As I advanced through the coding of my game, I was able to make the adjustments that I felt were necessary and add any more assets that I felt were needed in order to perfect my game. All that to say, I believe that taking this overwhelming process one step at a time and managing my time properly allowed for me to bring my initial sketches to life and achieve the desired user experience I had imagined.
